Hello everyone and welcome to part six of the social club project.
Well we're going to be doing now is after we've created the directories and files for groups and posts
we will actually build out the models that PI files for both groups and post applications.
Let's get started.
OK.
The first models not py file are going to be working with is the group's models that py file.
And then once this one is ready to go we'll move over to the post models that py file.
So right now under groups open up models up PI and then you can type along with me and then double checked
against the provided NOTES.
I'm going to say from Django that you tildes thought you'd tildes text import and I'm going to be importing
slug ephi and slug file just allows us to remove any characters that are alphanumerics or underscores
or hyphens and basically the idea behind that is if you have a string that has spaces in it and you
want to use that as part of your R-AL it's going to be able to lowercase and add dashes instead of spaces.
That way it works if your browser.
So we have slug a fine and then I'm also going to import something called Misaka and that allows us
to actually do Lincoln betting.
If you've ever use something like redit commenting system you can actually put links are a little bit
a mark down text that that's what Misaka actually does.
Now in order to use this when you actually install it.
So open up your terminal and then say pitte install Misaka hit enter and then my requirements were satisfied
because I already installed it earlier.
But in your virtual environment again just type out Pippin's tall am I.
Aka.
And again is going to allow us to use markdown inside of these posts.
So I'm going to minimize this once that we've done that and the next thing to do is say from jingo dot
contrib dot 88 so that authorization I'm going to import a function called Get user model and that returns
the user model that's currently active in this project.
So I'm going to be able to do that to create a user object so get user model.
And essentially what that allows me to do is call things off of the current user's session and that
will make more sense once we actually call things off this user.
So we'll save that for now and then the last thing I wanted to do which I'm not going to able to explain
right now but you'll see it in the future when we actually deal a template that uses it.
I'm going to say from Django import template and then say register is equal to template library and
we'll talk about that later.
But basically this is how we can use custom template tags in the future.
So later on I'm going to have an in-group members check templates and we're actually dealing with the
group HVM files and that's going to come in handy here.
So keep us in the back of your mind you're not going to see it used until a future lecture but we're
going to go ahead and type it in now.
OK.
Now it's time for actual made model.
It's group some would say class group and this is going to inherit from models that model and right
now I'll just say pass because I want to add in one more class here which is the group member class
to have groups and then group members will see group members and then we'll say models the model and
then here I will also say pass and then save.
OK.
So the simpler one is actually the group member.
So that's all work on first and then we'll have group itself.
Let me collapse see the victory tree and get a little more space under group and then once we fill this
out we'll remove the pass.
So in class group member what I'm going to do is create a group attribute and that's going to be linked
with a foreign key to the group class.
So we'll say group and then we'll give a related name and the related name.
I'm going to call it membership's.
And essentially that means that the group member is related to the group class through the foreign key
which we've called membership's which makes sense.
A group member can have a membership to a group and then will have a user also be an attribute.
And that's going to be models foreign key and that's going to be a link to user and the related name
is going to be user underscore groups.
So essentially we'll have a user that we get from here that current user that's logged in and playing
out the Web site and they're going to have some groups that they belong to or that they're going to
be a member of.
So we want to link this group member class to both the user and the various groups that the user could
belong to.
So we have that.
And then finally let's add an ADF call for a string representation of the object passes itself and then
I'm going to return self user dot username so you remember when we're creating the accounts application
we had a user and remember users can have user names.
And that's we're going to be using for the string representation.
So I will save that and then we want to add in one more subclass here at the meta.
And here I'm going to call unique together so unique underscore together and say equals to
and user.
And we'll explain later on what that actually means.
But right now that's all we need in the actual group member.
Class we have the link to the group to the user.
The string method.
And then this unique together for group and user and then we will save that.
Now it's time to deal with this larger group class or group model.
So this group model or model class is going to have an attribute called name which is going to be the
actual name of the group that's going to just be models.
It will be a character field and we'll give it a max length of let's say fifty five.
Doesn't really matter.
And then I need unique to be equal to true because I don't want groups to have overlapping group names.
So once we have that the next thing to do is say slug and the group is going to have a slug which is
going to be at models a slug field and I'm going to allow underscore Unicode equal to true.
And then I'm also going to require that this is unique that way.
I don't get any mistakes calling a moral code and I make sure that group slug's and group names don't
accidentally overlap each other then we will have a description field as well or attribute and then
we will say this is a text field and it can be blank.
We'll let it be blank.
Or actually let's not let it be blank.
Someone should always have a description for the group.
So we'll say has to be true will make the default value be blank.
So default value is just going to be a blank string.
So I have two single quotes there.
And that's going to be the description for the group and then we're going to add another attribute called
description description underscore HVM L which you may find useful in the future.
But right now we'll just type it in whether or not we're going to use it.
And it's just going to be a text field where we say edible where whether or not you can edit it will
set it equal to false.
The default value is going to be a blank string.
And we're going to say that it can be blank in case we want a kind of HTL version of our description.
And then finally the members of a group is going to be equal to models and this is a many to many field
so many to many field and it's going to pass in a user object and then the through argument is going
to be through a member class.
There we go.
OK so now we have the basic attributes for our group and we're going to add in a couple of methods.
So the first method we're just going to say as to your pasand self and this is just going to be the
string representation of a group object where it's going to return.
Self-taught name so the group string representation is just the name of the group.
Next we're going to say save So when you want to save a group we're going to do the following.
We'll take in args and keyword arguments.
And then we'll set the slug of the group once you're saving it to slug ify self-taught name which means
whatever the name is you can go ahead and put spaces in it while you're filling out the group form.
But then when we actually save it the slog will become the slug if I call on self-taught name essentially
just replacing and lower casing things and then we will say self description HVM else so that extra
attribute that we created that's going to be equal to Misaka that each team will allow us to put markdown
in their self description.
There we go.
So in case we have marked down in the description I can call it with Misaka h t m l and then finally
we'll say super well to save our args and keyword arguments.
OK so that's going to be our Save method for the group and then I'm going to get another method called
Get absolute's underscore your L self and then this is going to return a reverse call of groups single.
And right now we haven't actually defined.
Are you URLs.
Py file so keep that in mind.
Later I will explain more about what groups and single is but that's going to be a reverse and we're
going to add in some keyword arguments.
Basically a dictionary where the slug is equal to self-taught slug
OK.
And then finally we will have a medic class call and we'll say ordering is equal to.
And this has to be fast and has a list name save that it was kind of explain.
Overall we just did.
So we set up our group class as well as our group member class group member just connects to a group
that this group member belongs to and a user that connects to the sexual individual member and the stronger
representation is a username that we have or actual group class or group model.
The name of the group the slug representation that group the description of that group and then a description
that is to description underscore each T.M. that we're going to use with moussaka to actually get some
marked on text and then we will call members which is just many many fields so all the members that
belong to this particular group and that so far is all we have to do with the models.
Py file underneath the group's application.
OK now let's hop over to the models that py file in the posts applications.
I will save this models PI come over to pose models that pi and then collapses.
So right now this is the most models up-I file that we're going to be editing.
All right.
So the first thing I want to do here is couple of imports.
So for the posts I'm going to say from Jane with that core that your resolvers import reverse that way
when someone does a post or we're going to kind of send them back to and then the other thing I'm going
to say is from Django that CNF import settings going to import moussaka.
Again that way people can write Mark down inside of their actual post.
And then we will say from groups models import group so we can connect the post to an actual group.
And then finally we can do this Billos comment kind of up to you wherever you want to put it.
We'll say from jingo dot contrib.
Th for authorization in poor get user model and it will create a user object saying get user model and
that's just going to connect the current post to whoever's like logged in as a user.
That way you can actually get the current user logged into a session not going to say class post models
that model and I just put it past right there for now.
And we're going to do a couple of things.
One is that at the boots for post sort of the string representation method the Save method and then
the absolute Your method which means once someone has posted something where are we going to send them.
And we'll have a medic class for other information.
So I'm going to now get rid of that past and start typing that out.
OK.
So we have user and that's going to be models and there'll be a foreign key to a user.
Basically this current user and I will say related name is equal to Persse I'll create a field called
created that.
And that's going to be equal to models that will be a date time field.
And I'm going to have the auto now is equal to true that way once someone post the actual date time
that they post.
It's just automatically connected.
So you don't actually fill in the time you posted.
It's just auto generated for you and you can display that or not display it's kind of up to you but
will have that information inside or adamant models.
So then I'm going to say message.
So what's actually the message in that post that's going to be equal to models textfield and all these
old defaults there.
I don't want to really put a max length on that right now.
And then the HDMI out markdown version of this same message underscore each Steimle that's going to
be equal to models.
Textfield but I don't want people to be able to edit that.
So I'll say editable is equal to false because we're going to basically grab that directly from message
and you'll see that in a second and then one last attribute here I will say a group that's going to
models foreign key foreign key and that's going to connect to group which we remember imported from
are grouped up models.
So this post is connected with a foreign key to a group.
It has a related name of posts and then we'll say Knoll's equal to true.
And then we will say blank is equal to true.
OK so are four key can be knowledge can be Blinkx true but we'll take care of that in further detail.
The templates themselves.
But let's go through those methods that we we're going to do.
So first one is the string representation of this and that that's just going to be the actual message
the post will say return self-taught message the next one I want to do is the Save method that's going
to look similar to what we've been doing in the past where we have args our keyword arguments K args.
KW args.
And then there will be self message underscore each Tamil is equal to Misaka each T.M. of self-taught
message.
That way if someone writes in a mark down so they put a link in their post it doesn't look like a strange
imitation of Bracken's stuff it actually is supported with the H T.M. from Misaka.
And then we're going to say super
save.
And then again the arcs and the keyword arguments.
All right so that's the Save method.
And then finally we're going to do the last method get absolute URL for that will do.
Class Mehtar are a subclass.
So the get absolute You are all going to say self and this is going to return the following.
Let me put some more lines in here.
This is going to return the reverse function call and we will passen posts single.
So again we haven't set up the actual you or else but that will be set up eventually and then it's also
going to take in some keyword arguments which is going to be a dictionary of the username that will
be self-taught.
User thought user name and then the other thing that's going to go on here is the primary key.
So we're going to be kind of using primary keys as a way to relate to post back to your l.
That's going to be equal to self-taught primary key and that should be it for the actual get.
Absolutely or alcohol.
Then we're going to say class Metta
will say ordering is equal to which they created at.
But notice I put a minus sign here.
That way we see him in descending order so the most recent posts are at the top and then we will say
unique underscore together is equal to.
And that's going to be realistic and also be a tuple.
It was a user message.
OK.
That way every message is uniquely linked to a user.
All right so those are the models that Pif for files for posts and groups.
Now we definitely get a lot of typing here.
So double check that you match up to the supplied notes in case you were were able to follow along or
were looking down and typing etc..
So always check against the actual provided by files and coming up next we're going to expand on these
models that py files and begin to work with them using our views not pie.
All right thanks everyone and I'll see you at the next lecture.